=head1 NAME

weasel - evolution simulation based on Dawkins' Weasel

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 weasel [options]
 weasel (--help|--version)

=head1 DESCRIPTION

A basic evolution simulation based on
L<Dawkins' Weasel|http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Weasel_program> which attempts
to account for variation in the reproduction process itself rather than
enforcing fixed reproduction and mutation rates.  A simple implementation of
the original can be found in F<weasel1.c>.

=head2 Differences

=over

=item Scoring

Original: each gene (letter) scored as either a perfect match or a total
failure.  

Updated: each gene is scored based on its proximity to the correct letter.

=item Reproduction Rate and Mutation Rate

Original: reproduction rate and mutation rate were fixed.

Updated: each organism reproduces and mutates at a different rate and those
rates themselves mutate.

=item Mutation

Original: mutation rate is represented with a fixed probability of mutation.
Each gene was individually tested and, if it mutated, replaced by a random gene
from the available pool.

Updated: the mutation rate is represented via standard deviation.  A random
number is generated according to a standard normal distribution and multiplied
by the mutation rate.  The resulting number is added to the current value of
the gene, such that values adjacent to the original gene are more likely than
distant ones.

=item Population Size

Original: only the highest scoring organism survived to reproduce.

Updated: a configurable number of organisms survive each generation.  This
allows competition via reproduction rate.

=back

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-p>, B<--population>=I<i>

Population limit (default: C<5>).

=item B<-t>, B<--target>=I<s>

Target string (default: C<METHINKS IT IS LIKE A WEASEL>).

=item B<-s>, B<--seed>=I<i>

Provide seed for random number generator for reproducible runs.

=item B<-g>, B<--pool>=I<s>

Specify the available gene pool (default: C< ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ>).

=item B<-m>, B<--mutation>=I<i>

Initial mutation rate (default: C<5>).

=item B<-r>, B<--reproduction>=I<i>

Initial reproduction rate (default: C<1>).

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Display program usage information.

=item B<-V>, B<--version>

Display program version.

=item B<-v>, B<--verbose>

Display additional information.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

 weasel --population 2 --target WEASEL --reproduction 500 --mutation 0.1 --seed 9

 pool: ' ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ'
 target: 'WEASEL' (162)
 population size: 2
 random seed: 9
 <id>: (<parent>) '<value>' (<reproduction>/<mutation>) (<score>)
 ---[ Generation 1 ]-----------------------------
 1: 'DHGVBK' (500/0.100000) (127)
 ---[ Generation 2: Avg Score: 127 (78%) ]------------------
 1: (1) 'DHGVBK' (500/0.015311) (127)
 2: (1) 'DHGVBK' (500/0.328962) (127)
 ---[ Generation 3: Avg Score: 127 (78%) ]------------------
 1: (2) 'EHGVBK' (500/0.547189) (128)
 2: (1) 'DHGVBK' (500/0.010542) (127)
 ---[ Generation 4: Avg Score: 130 (80%) ]------------------
 1: (1) 'EGGUBK' (500/1.707568) (130)
 2: (1) 'EGGVCK' (500/0.984900) (130)
 ---[ Generation 5: Avg Score: 138 (85%) ]------------------
 1: (1) 'GGCUDK' (500/3.477056) (138)
 2: (1) 'HDGSCL' (500/3.836596) (138)
 ---[ Generation 6: Avg Score: 148 (91%) ]------------------
 1: (1) 'WIEOEM' (494/1.033034) (149)
 2: (2) 'RACQDL' (505/0.922031) (148)
 ---[ Generation 7: Avg Score: 153 (94%) ]------------------
 1: (1) 'WICQEM' (495/1.867143) (153)
 2: (1) 'WHCPDL' (493/0.381564) (153)
 ---[ Generation 8: Avg Score: 159 (98%) ]------------------
 1: (1) 'WDBSEL' (495/2.220129) (160)
 2: (1) 'VFAREL' (496/-0.285128) (159)
 ---[ Generation 9: Avg Score: 160 (98%) ]------------------
 1: (1) 'WDASEL' (495/3.347828) (161)
 2: (1) 'WD SEL' (495/0.553717) (160)
 ---[ Generation 10: Avg Score: 161 (99%) ]------------------
 1: (1) 'WDASEL' (494/4.857840) (161)
 2: (2) 'WE SEL' (495/1.377056) (161)
 ---[ Generation 11: Avg Score: 162 (100%) ]------------------
 1: (2) 'WEASEL' (492/-2.104459) (162)
 2: (2) 'WEASEL' (496/0.528725) (162)

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item L<Dawkins' Weasel|http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Weasel_program>

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2014 Andrew Gregory <andrew.gregory.8@gmail.com>

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies
of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do
so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
